---
layout: post
title: Productivity Tools
---
With the new responsibilities that come with being a parent, I've been thinking
more about how to maximize my productivity and mental space. Here's a couple
tools/tricks I find the most helpful for my day to day life.

## Inbox Zero

One of the best things I've done for my productivity and mental capacity was a
move towards inbox zero. If you have 5,000 items in your inbox, it's impossible
to tell what you still need to respond to, or act upon. If your inbox has 6
items in it, it's easy to see what tasks you need to do, or who you need to get
back to.

By archiving all of the e-mails that I've "completed", I'm able to quickly see
what items need my attention. If there's a pull request I need to review, it
sits in my inbox until I've had the chance to do so. If my wife sends me a
chore list, I can leave it in my inbox until I've completed all of the items on
it. Since I'm always looking at my e-mail during the day, it's an easy way to
keep track of what needs to be done.

I never have to worry about forgetting to respond to an e-mail, or ignoring a
comment on a project management tool. It removes a lot of the stress I used to
feel that came from managing a messy inbox.

## Aggregated News

For a while, I found myself struggling to keep up with all of the news and
information related to my interests. I was checking Hacker News daily for
programming news, TeamLiquid for the latest Starcraft discussions, etc.. A
while ago, I decided that I was spending way too much time checking news
sources and I needed to cut them out of my daily routine. I decided to settle
on Twitter and E-mail as my primary sources for news.

I signed up for newsletters for Hacker News, Ruby Weekly, Node Weekly, EmberJS,
and many others. I now get a curated list of content once a week from each of
the sources I used to spend time on daily. This allows me to check a bunch of
interesting articles at once, dismiss uninteresting ones, and save good
articles to Pocket for later.

I follow an assortment of developers on Twitter, and I find it a useful
resource for keeping up with the latest trends and ideas in
programming. Since I didn't see myself being able to cut out Twitter from my
daily routine, I decided to pipe in content from non-developer interests to
Twitter. To this end, I created a [Twitter
Bot](https://github.com/mockra/loudred) to tweet the top posts from subreddits
I used to follow. I no longer spend hours on reddit checking news and reading
discussions, the top content I care about is sent to my Twitter feed.
